CAB302 Project Requirements: AI Revision Flashcards  

Project Brief 



Synopsis:

AI-Powered flashcard generator that takes lecture and tutorial notes and converts them into flashcards. This will enable students to address learning gaps, improving their study efficiency. 

The application will include progress tracking and allows the user to adjust the flashcard difficulty. The application provides further insight and analysis by categorising progress further into topic. Users can share their decks with other users.  



Key Features:

1. Authentication system to sign-up/sign-in (MIN REQ 2) 

2. Input of lecture notes with associated topic and week 

3. Processing of lecture notes into database into a uniform format (MIN REQ 3) 

4. Conversion of database into flashcards based on study / unit plan 

5. Tagging of flashcards by topic and week 

6. Users can create and delete flashcards 

7. User can adjust difficulty of flashcards 

8. Application saves test results to track user performance 

9. User can view study progress with progress bars 

10. Option to set test length (e.g., 10 questions, 15 questions) 

11. Testing of student on flashcards, different types of tests 

    11.1 Multiple choice (minimum) 

    11.2 User input (stretch plan) 

12. Analysis of testing e.g. what are deficiencies within topics (stretch plan) 

13. AI-powered feedback and recommendations (stretch plan) 

14. Time Limit on card completion (stretch plan) 

*Key functions are achieved through multiple GUI / Windows (MIN REQ 1, 4) 



Additional features: 

1. Collaboration & Sharing – Users can share or import decks with other authenticated users. 

2. Chatbot Tutor Mode – AI chatbot can quiz students and provide explanations. 

3. Game mode - To make study session fun and engaging 

 


 

Functional Requirements  

1. User Management  

    Authentication System  

      Email 

      Password (hashed) 
    
    Profile Adjustment  
    
      Set card difficulty 
    
      Set test length 
    
    Session Management 
    
      Keep users logged in 

2.Flashcard Generation  

    Upload 
    
      Load .txt or .pdf 
    
    Tagging of Flashcard 
    
      User input for topic  
    
      User input for week 
    
    Note storing and processing into uniform format 
    
    Ai generation  
    
      Link to Ai model  
    
      Provide context and guard rails  

3. Flashcard Management  

    Store Flashcard  
    
      Retrieve and store output from Ai 
    
      Store based on tagging and unique code 
    
    Deletion of Flashcard 
    
      Deletion of card from database 

4. Progress Management  

    System Logging  
    
      Log incorrect or correct  
    
      Store based on:  
    
        Flashcard Id 
    
        Date/Time 
    
        Result 
    
    Progress Calculation  
    
      Total correct of the card stack vs incorrect/not attempted  
    
    Display with progress bars  
    
      Total bar 
    
      Bar for each topic 

 


Graphical User Interface (GUI) 

Key windows / sections: 

  1.Dashboard showing study progress 

  2.File upload section for lecture / class notes 

  3.Navigation between topics 

  4.Difficulty levels 

  5.View streaks 

  6.Flashcard test UI 

  7.Login / create account 

  8.Manage account / settings 
